our first conversation was on Facebook
and it was three days long we shared
over 3000 messages between us and it was
doing those 72 hours that I knew she was
going to be my wife we didn't rate any
prerequisite amount of time for our
courtship we told each other the
vulnerable truths upfront I am a
transgender man which means the F of my
birth certificate should have stood for
false instead of female walking around
as a woman in the world felt like
walking with pebbles in my shoes you
know it took the rhythm out of my
swagger it threw me off balance it
pained me with every step I took forward
but today I'm a man of my own intention
I made up my own design I am a cisgender
queer woman cisgender means the gender I
was assigned at birth is still and has
always been female this doesn't make me
natural or normal this is just one way
of describing the many different ways
that we exist in this world and queer is
a cultural term but in this case it
refers to the way that I'm not
restricted by gender when it comes to
choosing partners I've identified in a
few different ways as a bisexual as a
lesbian but for me queerness encompasses
all of the layers of who I am and how
I've loved
I'm layers and not fractions and for me
the fact that he was queer meant that I
could trust this courtship from the very
beginning as queer and trans people we
are so often excluded from institutions
and traditions we create spaces outside
of convention including the conventions
of time and in those 3,000 messages
between us we collapse time week weird
it we laid it all on the table with no
pretense at all and this meant that we
were able to commit to each other in a
profoundly different way so often what
we're told is this idea of the Golden
Rule
that we should treat other people the
way that we want to be treated but the
problem with that is that it assumes
that
you're the standard for other people and
we're not we need to treat other people
the way that they want to be treated
which means we had to ask
I couldn't assume that the kind of love
the TKE needed was the same kind of love
that I needed so I asked him everything
about his fears his insecurities and we
started from there
I didn't know what kind of love I needed
I had just come out of a year-long fog
being rejected and utterly depleted I
had someone look me in my eyes and tell
me that I was unworthy of their love
because I was trans and there's a
culture of lovelessness that we've
created around transgender people its
reasons justified and often signed into
law and I was a heartbeat away from
internalizing that message that I wasn't
worthy but Kim said that I was her ideal
the heartbroken mess that I was he
totally was my ideal in more ways than
one both poets writers creatives with a
long history of community work behind us
and big huge dreams of a family in front
of us we shared a lot of things in
common but we were all so incredibly
different I've been a lifelong traveler
and a bit of an orphan whereas he comes
from a huge family and definitely stays
grounded
I often kind of sum up the differences
in our strengths by saying keep me safe
and I'll keep you wild we have
marginalized identities but we don't
live marginalized lives being queer and
trans is about creating new ways of
existing it's about loving people as
they are not as they're supposed to be
Kim is unapologetically feminine in a
world that is often cruel and violent to
women who are too proud and too free and
I didn't enter into this union under the
auspice that she was going to be my
helper or my rib but a fully
accomplished
all right fully complex human being
whose femininity wasn't for me to rein
in control or critique it's her
brilliance the way she leaves with
compassion and how she never loses sight
of her empathy she has been my hero
since day one our relationship has
always been about setting each other
free one of the first questions I asked
him was what dreams he had left to
accomplish and how would I help him get
there his dream still live as a poet to
adopt and raise a family together to
live a life that he was proud of and one
that would live up to his mother's
incredible legacy and I really
appreciated that we were able to start
from that place and not from a place
that was around figuring out how to make
each other work together and I think
that this really allowed us to grow into
the people that we were in a way that
was incredibly different I love him
whole pre-transition
now and in the future and it's this love
that had us committed to each other
before we'd even seen each other's faces
my mother's biggest concern when I
transitioned was who was going to love
me as I am had being transgender somehow
precluded me from love and monogamy
because I was supposedly born in the
wrong body
but it's this type of structuring that
has to be reframed in order to let love
in my body never betrayed me and my body
was never wrong it's this restrictive
binary thinking on gender that said that
I didn't exist but when we met she loved
me for exactly how I showed up she would
trace her fingers along the numb keloid
scars left by my top surgery scars that
run from the middle of my chest all the
way out to my outer torso she said that
these were reminders of my strength and
everything that I went through and
nothing for me to be ashamed of so
sprinting towards her hand in marriage
was the queerest thing that I could do
and flew in the face of more
conventional trajectories of love and
relationships because God was never
supposed to bless the union for folks
like us and the law was never supposed
to recognize it so on may 5th 2014 just
about three months after meeting online
we were married on the steps of City
Hall in Manhattan and it was beautiful
in every conceivable way it's safe to
say that you know we reimagine some
traditions but you know we also kept
some old ones and we worked in and we
created some things that worked for us
my bouquet and corsage was actually
filled with wild flowers from Brooklyn
also added in a little bit of lavender
and sage to keep his grounded because we
were so nervous I was put together by a
sweet sister healer friend of ours I
never wanted a diamond ring because
conflict and convention are not my thing
so my ring is the deepest purple like
the color of my crown chakra and set in
place with my birth stones the gift of
queerness is options I never had to
choose his last name it was never an
exception but I did because I'm my
father's bastard child someone who has
always been an apology a secret and
imposition and it was incredibly freeing
to choose the name of a man who chose me
first
[Applause]
so we told some family and some close
friends many of whom were still in
disbelief as we took our files fittingly
we posted all of our wedding photos on
Facebook where we met an Instagram of
course and we quickly realized that are
coming together was more than just a
union of two people but was a model of
possibility for the millions of LGBTQ
folks who have been sold this lie that
family in matrimony is antithetical to
who they are but those of us who rarely
get to see ourselves reflected in love
and happiness and the thing is
absolutely we are marginalized because
of our identities but it also emboldened
us to be the people that we are
queerness is our major key blackness is
our magic it's because of these things
that we are able to be hopeful open
receptive and shape-shifting these are
the things that give us and are such an
incredible source of our strengths our
queerness is the source of that strength
I think of the words of ottawa-based
poet brands and wind not queer like gay
queer like escaping definition queer
like some sort of fluidity and
limitlessness all at once queer like a
freedom too strange to be conquered
queer like the fearlessness to imagine
what love can look like and to pursue it
we are part of a community of folks and
it's good right we are part of a
community of folks who are living their
authentic selves all along the gender
spectrum
despite the ubiquitous threat of
violence despite the undercurrent of
anxiety that always is present for
people who live on their own terms
globally a transgender person is
murdered every twenty-one hours and the
United States has had more trans records
I'm sorry in the United States has had
more trans murders on record this year
than any year to date however our
stories are much more than this rigid
the economy of strength and resilience
we are expanding the human complexity on
these margins we are creating freedom on
these margins and we don't have any
blueprints we're creating a world that
we have literally never seen before
organizing families based on love
and not by blood guiding by a compassion
that so few of us have been shown
ourselves so many of us have not
received and not received love from our
families have been betrayed by the
people that we trust most so what we do
here is we create entirely new languages
of loved ones that are about creating
the space for us to be our authentic
selves and not imposing this standard of
what masculinity or femininity is
supposed to be we are interested in love
and inclusion as a tool of revolutionary
change right and the idea is simply if
we drop all our preconceived notions
about how somebody is supposed to be in
their body in their gender in their skin
if we take the intentional steps to
unlearn these deep-seated biases it
creates space for people to be
self-determined and embrace who they are
that we will definitely create a better
world than the one we were born into
we want to mark this time in history by
leaving evidence of the fact that we
were here we open up little windows into
our relationship for our community to
bear witness and we do this because we
want to make maps to the future and not
monuments to ourselves our experience
does not invalidate other people's
experience but it should and necessarily
does complicate this idea of what love
and marriage are supposed to be okay
now for all the talking and inspiring a
possibility modeling we've done we've
been nowhere near perfect and we've had
to hold a mirror up to ourselves and I
saw that I wasn't always the best
listener and that my ego got in a way of
our progress as a couple and I've had to
really assess these deep-seated sexist
ideas that I've had about the value of a
woman's experience in the world I've had
to re-evaluate what it means to be an
ally ship with my wife and I had to
remind myself of a lot of things to what
it means to be hard on the issues but
soft on the person while we were writing
this we got into a massive fight for so
many different reasons but they on the
content about our values and our lived
experiences and we were really hurt you
know because what we do and how we love
puts ourselves entirely on the line but
even though the fight lasted over the
course of two days we were able to come
back together to each other and recommit
to ourselves to each other and to our
marriage and that really yielded some of
the panel's passionate parts of what we
share with you here today I have had to
interrogate masculinity which I think
doesn't happen enough I've had to
interrogate masculinity the toxic
privileges that come with being a man
don't define me but I have to be
accountable for how it shows up in my
life every day I have allowed my wife to
do all of the emotional labor of prying
open the lines of communication what I'd
rather clam up and run away I've
stripped away emotional support instead
of facing my own vulnerabilities
particularly around the heartbreaking
miscarriage we suffered last year and
I'm sorry for that
sometimes as men we get to take the easy
way out and so my journey as a trans
person is about reimagining masculinity
about creating a manhood that isn't
measured by the power it wills
by the entitlements afforded to it or
any simulacrum of control that it can
muster but works in tandem with the man
entity and is guided by my spirit yeah
and this has created the space for my
femininity to flourish in a way I have
never experienced before he never is
threatened by my sexuality
he never polices what I wear or how I
act I cook but he does way more of the
cleaning than I do and when we're
rushing to get out of the house and we
have so much to handle he handles
everything so I have time to do my hair
and my makeup he understands that this
is my armor and he never treats
femininity as though it is frivolous or
superficial and this and him he grows my
experience of gender every single day I
love The Watcher get dressed in the
morning watch her in the closet looking
for something comfortable and colourful
and tight and safe right
but it's challenging to watch her
negotiate her decisions looking for
something that's going to get the least
amount of attention but at the same time
being expression of the vibrant and sexy
woman she is and all I want to do is
celebrate her for her beauty the things
that make her beautiful and special and
free from her long acrylic nails to her
uncompromising black feminism
I love you I love you there are so many
queer and trans people who have come
before us whose stories that we will
never get to hear
we constantly experience this retelling
of history where we are conspicuously
left out and it's really hard to not see
ourselves there and so living out loud
for us is about that representation it's
about having possibility models and
having hope that love is part of our
inheritance in this world to the
possibility that we are practicing is
about reinventing time love and
institutions we are creating a future of
multiplicity we are expanding the
spectrum of gender and sexuality
imagining ourselves into existence
imagining a world with gender itself
determined and not imposed and where who
we are is a kaleidoscope of possibility
without the narrow-minded limitations
masquerading as science or justice and I
can't lie it is really really hard it is
hard to stand in the face of bigotry
with an open heart and a smile on my
face it is really hard to face the
injustice that exists in the world while
still believing in the ability of people
to really change that takes an enormous
amount of faith and dedication and
beyond that marriage is hard work
piles of dirty socks on the floor more
boring sports shows than I ever thought
possible and fights that bring me to
tears when it feels like we're not
speaking the same language but there is
not a day that goes by where I am not so
grateful to be married to this man where
I'm not so grateful for the possibility
of changing minds and rewarding
conversations and creating a world where
love belongs to us all
I think about our acronym LGBTQ 2's ia a
seemingly endless evolution of self and
a community but also this really deep
desire not to leave anyone behind we've
learned how to love each other and we've
committed to loving each other
throughout changes to gender and changes
in spirits and we learn this love in our
chat rooms in our clubs and our bars and
in our community centers we've learned
how to love each other for the long haul
thank you
[Applause]